The Anatomy of a Computer

Understanding Programming
To understand the programming process, you need to have a rudimentary understanding 
of the building blocks that make up a computer. 

Larger Computers 
Larger computers have faster, larger, or more powerful components, 
but they have fundamentally the same design.

central processing unit (CPU)
At the heart of the computer lies the central processing unit (CPU)
It consists of a single CHIP, or a small number of CHIPS.
The part of a computer that executes the machine instructions.
CPU performs 
The CPU performs program control and data processing. That is, the CPU locates 
and executes the program instructions; it carries out arithmetic operations 
such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division; it fetches data 
from external memory or devices and stores data back.

Computer Chip 
A computer chip (integrated circuit) is a component with a plastic or metal housing, metal connectors, 
and inside wiring made principally from silicon. 

CPU Chip
For a CPU chip, the inside wiring is enormously complicated. For example, the 
Pentium chip (a popular CPU for personal computers at the time of this writing) 
is composed of several million structural elements, called TRANSITORS. 

Two Kinds Of Storage
    Primary storage
    Primary storage, or memory, is made from electronic circuits that can store data, provided they are supplied with electric power.
    Secondary storage
    Secondary storage, usually a hard disk or a solid-state drive, provides slower and less expensive storage that persists without electricity.
        - Storage that persists without electricity, e.g., a hard disk.
        - A hard disk consists of rotating platters, which are coated with a magnetic material.
        - A device that stores information on rotating platters with magnetic coating
        - A solid-state drive uses electronic components that can retain information without power, and without moving parts.

Programs and data are typically stored on
the hard disk and loaded into memory when the program starts. The program then updates the data in memory and writes the modified data back to the hard disk.

To interact with a human user
a computer requires peripheral devices.
The computer transmits information (called output) to the user through a display screen, speakers, and printers.
The user can enter information (called input) by using a keyboard or a pointing device such as a mouse.

self-contained units AND networks
Some computers are self-contained units, whereas others are interconnected through networks.
Through the network cabling, the computer can read data and programs from central storage 
locations or send data to other computers. For the user of a networked computer it may not 
even be obvious which data reside on the computer itself and which are transmitted through 
the network.

Program instructions and data (such as text, numbers, audio, or video) reside in secondary storage or elsewhere on the network.

How it works.. Altogether 
When a program is started its instructions are brought into memory, where the CPU can read them.
The CPU reads and executes one instruction at a time.
As directed by these instructions, the CPU reads data, modifies it, and writes it back to memory or secondary storage.
Some program instructions will cause the CPU to place dots on the display screen or printer or to vibrate the speaker
As these actions happen many times over and at great speed, the human user will perceive images and sound.
Some program instructions read user input from the keyboard, mouse, touch sensor, or microphone. The program analyzes 
the nature of these inputs and then executes the next appropriate instruction.

Questions
1.2.1: What part of the computer executes instructions?
The part of the computer that executes instructions is the _____.
A. central processing unit

1.2.2: What type of storage persists without electricity?
1. ______ storage, which persists without electricity, is slower but not very expensive.
A. Secondary