What Is Programming?

Chapter Goals 1.1.1
    - To learn about the architecture of computers
    - To learn about machine languages and higher-level programming languages
    - To become familiar with your compiler
    - To compile and run your first C++ program
    - To recognize compile-time and run-time errors
    - To describe an algorithm with pseudocode
    - To understand the activity of programming

Computers 
Computers can carry out a wide range of tasks because they execute different programs, 
each of which directs the computer to work on a specific task.
The computer itself is a machine that stores data (numbers, words, pictures), interacts with devices 
(the monitor, the sound system, the printer), and executes programs.
The programs the computer executes are called the SOFTWARE

A Computer Program 
A computer program tells a computer, in minute detail, the sequence of steps that are needed to fulfill a task.

Hardware
The physical computer and peripheral devices are collectively called the hardware.
The physical equipment for a computer or another device.

Software
The programs the computer executes are called the SOFTWARE
The intangible instructions and data that are necessary for operating a computer or another device.

Today’s computer programs are so sophisticated that it is hard to believe that 
they are composed of extremely primitive operations. A typical operation may be one of the following:
- Put a red dot at this screen position.
- Add up these two numbers.
- If this value is negative, continue the program at a certain instruction.

The User
The computer user has the illusion of smooth interaction because a program contains 
a huge number of such operations, and because the computer can execute them at great speed.

Programming
The act of designing and implementing computer programs is called programming. Learning to program means you will 
learn how to program a computer—that is, how to direct the computer to execute tasks.

Reading Questions:
1.1.1: What is computer equipment called?
1.The physical computer and peripheral devices are collectively called the
A. Hardware

1.1.2: What does it take to write a complex program?
1. Writing the program for a computer game with motion, graphics, and sound effects usually requires _____.
A. a team of highly skilled programmers writing a large number of simple instructions