1.3 Computing and Society: Computers Are Everywhere

Computers were first invented in 1940s, in this time a computer filed an entire room.

ENIAC (electronic numerical integrator and computer)
completed in 1946 at the University of Pennsylvania.
The ENIAC was used by the military to compute the trajectories of projectiles.

Nowadays, computing facilities of search engines, Internet shops, and social networks fill huge buildings called data centers.
At the other end of the spectrum, computers are all around us. Your cell phone has a computer inside, as do many credit cards 
and fare cards for public transit. A modern car has several computers––to control the engine, brakes, lights, and radio.

The advent of ubiquitous computing changed many aspects of our lives. 
Factories used to employ people to do repetitive assembly tasks that are today 
carried out by computer-controlled robots, operated by a few people who know how 
to work with those computers. Books, music, and movies nowadays are often consumed 
on computers, and computers are almost always involved in their production. The 
book that you are reading right now could not have been written without computers.

Knowing about computers and how to program them has become an essential skill in many careers. 
Engineers design computer-controlled cars and medical equipment that preserve lives. Computer 
scientists develop programs that help people come together to support social causes. For example, 
activists used social networks to share videos showing abuse by repressive regimes, and this 
information was instrumental in changing public opinion.

As computers, large and small, become ever more embedded in our everyday lives, it is increasingly 
important for everyone to understand how they work, and how to work with them. As you use this book 
to learn how to program a computer, you will develop a good understanding of computing fundamentals 
that will make you a more informed citizen and, perhaps, a computing professional.